---
layout: writings
title: Life
permalink: life
categories: writings
description: Life is an accumulation of stories.
---

I have a great-aunt whom I absolutely love. She'll be 82 in July of 2022 and has accumulated a lot of stories throughout her life time. Some of them are funny, some questionable, but all are interesting. And that's a great thing to think about: We usually just spend our lives accumulating fascinating stories to tell other people. That's usually the means by which other people remember us in any event. They don't usually remember our individual character traits, but rather the specific stories that highlight our character.

All of this to say, we all have incredible stories to tell. No matter how boring things might really seem, there's always some sort of valuable lesson that can be extracted from our regular, everyday experiences.

Think about the funniest people you know. Who comes to mind? Is it Kevin Hart or George Carlin? Actually, the funniest people I know happen to be my friends and the people around me. Their account of experiences happening to them are some of the best stories I've ever heard. My favorite time at school would be when everyone was gathered in a circle and someone was telling some sort of story that happened to them - but usually exaggerated to get everyone to laugh.

I suppose in a sense, we are all continuously writing our autobiographies without even realizing. We are constantly in pursuit of cool stories to tell. And that's a nice little way to look at things; because if you constantly chase after exciting things, then after a while you're going to have some exciting things to talk about. Why wouldn't you try to fill your life with exciting events? After all we're going to die one day.
